#nauka #produktywność #programowanie 

1 learn computer science basics
2 take your time to solve problem
3 dont be afraid to make a mistakes
4 ask for help
5 dont try to learn everything
6 practice every day
7 apply your new skills
8 find a mentor if you can
9 track your learning
10 never stop learning

The 5-step approach to learning:
an idea that seems interesting
This is crucial, so spend some time on it. Observe your own interactions with tech. Is there something in your day to day life that feels repetitive? Look at others around you. Is there someway they could be helped by using some tech? Pick something that makes you go?—?“Ah! It would be cool if someone made a tool for that”. You will become that someone now.
Understand the possible prerequisites for implementing the idea
Here, you figure out things like what field does this idea fall into?—?is it mobile or is it web or is it native or is it cloud computing or is it ML or is it IOT? Then you try to get a idea of exactly what topics you need to know to simply get started and build a minimum viable product. You can do that by doing a lot of Googling and (/or) asking other people.
Start building and go as far as you can with your current knowledge
Now, you just build. Do as much as you can. Go as far as anyone with your set of knowledge possibly can.
Learn the thing that made you come to this step and go back to step 3
Sometimes, it can be just a quick Google search and at other times it can be immersive MOOCs. Just be sure to do the bare minimum that you need to go back to step 3. This way you will develop a cycle which will guide your learning journey and will ensure that the learning never stops because of a lack of motivation.
Get feedback on your project, learn how to improve, and go back to step 2
Release it to the users or ask some other programmer to review your code. This way you can avoid getting stuck at a local maxima. 

koncepcje do sprawdzenia 
IOT
MOOC

web servery:
softlayer
digital ocean 
apache (linux)



*Provide you with a constant motivation to learn.
**Enable you to deeply engage with the learning material.
***Be a constant source of energy and confidence. Because only a few things are as exciting as 
building something you want or need with your own hands.
****Help you in choosing what to learn. Because “what to learn” is often more important than “where to learn”.


edytory tekstu:
Sublime text
Atom
Visual studio code



Interaktywna powłoka:
bash
zsh
python
chrome developer tool


Seven Tips and tools for developer:
1. Sublime Text or Visual Studio Code.
2. Interactive Shell (Chrome Developer Tool or Python)
3. Remote Desktop Tool (TeamViewer, Chrome Remote Desktop, VNC)
4. Source Control (system kontroli wersji -> https://pl.wikipedia.org/wiki/System_kontroli_wersji)(git or mercurial)
5. Terminal (https://pl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terminal_komputerowy) and SSH (secure shell https://pl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secure_Shell)
6. Google Drive or Dropbox
7. Google Suites

Charlotte-Jayne Gilpin - Dream State vocal