#nauka #book
Recommended Books

_**[Learning How to Learn: How to Succeed in School Without Spending All Your Time Studying; A Guide for Kids and Teens](https://barbaraoakley.com/books/learning-how-to-learn/)**_, by Barbara Oakley PhD, Terrence Sejnowski PhD and Alistair McConville. In Barb and Terry’s new book for kids and teens, the authors reveal how to make the most of time spent studying. You have the tools to learn what might not seem to come naturally at first--the secret is to understand how the brain works so you can unlock its power. This book explains: * Why sometimes letting your mind wander is an important part of the learning process * How to avoid "rut think" in order to think outside the box * Why having a poor memory can be a good thing * The value of metaphors in developing understanding * A simple, yet powerful, way to stop procrastinatingFilled with illustrations, application questions, and exercises, this book makes learning easy and fun.

**[_Mindshift: Break Through Obstacles to Learning and Discover Your Hidden Potential_](https://barbaraoakley.com/books/mindshift/),** by Barbara Oakley. Most books on learning tell you to follow your passion. This book shows you how you can broaden your passions and learn and do things you never dreamed you could do. It's a book of inspiration, adventure, and scientific insight about learning, all wrapped into one. What can we say--Barb wrote the book!

[**Peak: Secrets from the New Science of Expertise**](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0544456238/ref=as_li_qf_sp_asin_il_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=learningho0a9-20&camp=1789&creative=9325&linkCode=as2&creativeASIN=0544456238&linkId=43f3a7bff9f00f282182cf825f4a09f5), by Anders Ericsson and Robert Pool. This is one of the best books on learning we've ever read. It gets at the heart of what it takes to become better at what you are trying to learn, and it provides solid encouragement and examples whether you are an 80-year-old trying to learn martial arts, or an 8-year-old learning the guitar. Ericsson is the best researcher around in the field of expertise, and Robert Pool (who has a doctorate in mathematics), helps work wizardry to make the book not only an incisive, but a fascinating read. Don't miss this book. Incidentally, what Ericsson calls a "mental representation" is analogous to what we in Learning How to Learn call a "neural chunk."

[_**The Art of Learning: An Inner Journey to Optimal Performance**_](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0743277465/ref=as_li_qf_sp_asin_il_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=learningho0a9-20&camp=1789&creative=9325&linkCode=as2&creativeASIN=0743277465&linkId=5056f0364b1965e3b78fd6ed1879b04c), by Josh Waitzkin. This is a wonderful book that looks at learning from a very different perspective than that of an academic. Waitzkin was a chess prodigy--his father, Fred Waitzkin, wrote the book Searching for Bobby Fischer, about his son's exceptional talents. But Waitzkin is also a international martial arts champion. Waitzkin's insights into the commonalities of both conventionally "athletic" and "mental" forms of learning is fascinating. Much of the discussion is highly relevant to many of the key ideas we've laid out in Learning How to Learn, including chunking and focused versus diffuse modes of thinking. Interestingly, a good time to attack in martial arts is when your opponent blinks--that momentary dip into the diffuse mode... Highly recommended!

[**_Make It Stick: The Science of Successful Learning_**](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0674729013/ref=as_li_qf_sp_asin_il_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=learningho0a9-20&camp=1789&creative=9325&linkCode=as2&creativeASIN=0674729013&linkId=f278bfbdbd7462ea2d0a321bcb59b894), by Peter Brown, Henry L. Roediger III, and Mark McDaniel. We've long been fans of Henry Roediger's world-class research. This book helps you understand why and how to use approaches like spaced repetition, self-testing, and introducing difficulties into your learning can be helpful. It also explains common "illusions of competence" in learning like rereading and underlining. This book will help reinforce, from a differing perspective, some of the ideas we describe in Learning How to Learn.

[_**The Art of Changing the Brain: Enriching the Practice of Teaching by Exploring the Biology of Learning**_](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1579220541/ref=as_li_qf_sp_asin_il_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=learningho0a9-20&camp=1789&creative=9325&linkCode=as2&creativeASIN=1579220541&linkId=527c6ac2c4aad9d550e9992152bb27e6), by James Zull. Although this is an older book, first published in 2002, it holds a rich way of looking at how the brain works that stands the test of time. Zull is a Professor of Biology and Biochemistry at Case Western University as well as being the Director of the University Center for Innovation in Teaching and Education, and Professor of a Human Learning and The Brain class. He gives a penetrating perspective on how learning takes place that can add insight to not only your own ability to learn, but to your teaching.